welcome to GUI and in the browsers for
16th or option I think 20 20 interesting
part is that we now nominate note takers
is it the person on the top right Alex
is that that right should I pick the
right or left I'll take the left that's
me
now that won't stick let's pick someone
on the right side good news Jessica your
note taker this week yeah cool so I got
three quick announcements first one GUI
and web browsers are working group again
so that's that's cool so we have
probably more folks more structure
updates on that soon oh yeah another
announcement is that brave is now
working on embedding embedding go IP of
us and I think it's official because
it's on the github so I can share my
screen tada so if anyone is interested
in tracking that there's the second
metal shoe with initial description of
how we imagine that integration will
look like those are very broad strokes
but super exciting and I think another
one is that the latest version of ipfs
companion lets people to opt in to using
the latest web UI so
not everyone but some folks were
complaining that when you click on there
when you open web UI from companion it
will pick the version that is hard-coded
in Jes ipfs or goid preference so if you
want to run the latest and the greatest
from web UI that I give as IO and you
trust your DNS resolver and you set up
all the course headers then you can
toggle the switch and my previous
companion will open the latest web UI
build from from its rep rep oh it's as
far as I know it's the latest version
from the master so be wary of that yep I
think that's it the next point I gosh I
should click randomize the stuff so I
don't talk all the time in the beginning
but the next steps for cleaning API
integration I think that quick update on
my end here is that we've identified the
problem of the state so the background
here is that we want to add pinning
service integration to a queue first
desktop namely - web UI oh hi the other
key is asking to get into the meeting
sorry
oh gosh
hello Detrick I a real person
okay so next steps for opinion KPI
integration long story short we want to
add support for like third-party pinning
services such as Panetta and others and
add UI to web UI and I'd give us desktop
to be able to quickly pin something
remotely and we've identified that
there's a problem of state right now web
UI itself is just a single page
application which is effectively which
you point at the remote API and that
remote API represents a node and you can
switch between nodes so apart from like
the language that you choose and the
eccentric country metrics there's no
state no cookies in web UI which could
be leveraged for storing the list of
pinning services and if you define
pinning service in as desktop which
embeds web UI you would want to see the
same list of defined pinning services
when you open web UI from a Kieffer's
companion right so we need to persist
the state the list of paying services in
the node in go ipfs somehow and ensure
the is to you to create the config
namespace for pinning remote pinning
services it makes sense because if we
have that in the config then go ipfs
itself could start leveraging that
information and for example you could
have when you pin something from the
command line it could automatically pin
something remotely as well but that's
just like initial idea we'll probably
have a document with a sketch of api's
that we need from the UI side we'll have
like a probably a separate call about
that we just can refer after this call
but it's just like to given status
update on this endeavor
is there anything to add Jessie
Caravelle I'd actually had an item later
and agenda for that which was Rafael do
you have any updates I knew you were
gone for a few days so how's how is it
going yeah
when I come back from all this the only
finger worked on from pinning services
was the settings page mock up so there's
no much functionality to show they're
just mock-ups for now just add services
and all of that so yeah no extra stuff
from the undergo API first part cool so
probably then I'm a bigger update next
week in two weeks let's be really cool
cool all right this is some Skype adits
what I feel it's available to have it
directly do you want to yeah sure I'm
I'm you did no not I read notes okay so
at the moment I kept as dog API is API
compatible pretty much sorry just just
to give a context yeah that's reaching
topic so this will be an update on
sharing ipfs note across browsing
contexts within the same origin that's
like a first all post we have yes yeah
so essentially we have another ipfs
implementation that works over message
protocol and it implements a subset of
IHS ipfs api at the moment dog api under
ipfs is fully implemented and it passes
in most of the tests a few tests are
disabled because they're doing some
argument normalization that i had not
implemented but as I said it does pass I
kept as good ad
function had been also fully implemented
and all the tests passing except few
today de sel because they depend on IPS
that object or ipfs don't start oh sorry
false start it guys that are not
implemented so like we run those tests
as this work required bunch of changes
in other libraries within the dependency
trace setting to make you and erase
usable in place of buffers so they're
like multiple levels of dependency so
they're slowly propagating once they
make its and I will push them to IP as
well yeah so with the MV I only have
ipfs cut left and once that's done I'll
be requesting review and it will be a
lot of fun because it's a lot of changes
and for like additional context is
there's a lot when you're at least
started working on this we've identified
a lot of problems when they need for
passing data or passing content
identifiers between different browsers
in context the need for like
serialization and deserialization not
everything was being just like passed in
the browser context so a lot of yeah so
browser structure cloning when you pass
the things across threats and some of
the data structures come out different
ways since they were in one of them
being an old buffers they come out as
you in a they race that's why some of
the changes have been made so a bunch of
things were that still an issue but in
the meantime I added a serialization
deserialization face on both sides and
there are ongoing discussions on trying
to make some changes in the library
surrounding to not have that step but
I'm not sure if they will ever be made
or not yeah that's I mentioned it
because we've initially hit that prob
of multiple layers of either cell
realizing this realizing overall
performance impact or when we introduced
winter ipfs experiment and we had this
like all the postmessage probe seeing in
place I know there are like right now
it's disabled in companion but it may
get back at some point in some form but
there are like meta mask is probably a
heating symbol at sample it's also like
a browser extension and they have
multiple contexts and they inject window
what free and window et room in two
pages so there's like probably the same
problem space
I know brave is using fork of meta mask
and it's bit older it doesn't support
those new experimental plug-in systems
but at some point it may be that if we
have a 95 geofence in brave and they
decide to implement that API is those
api's from like window web three we may
once again get to the point when those
performance issues relevant again I
would say it's not really a performance
issue as much as it's a complexity issue
but yeah I I don't think the performance
of it will be as impactful it's probably
negligible and crown scheme of things
but complexity overhead is really high
and obviously likes it feels like
fighting the browser environment rather
than playing with it so if we can make
changes to it to play nicer that would
be I seem good so hopefully we can make
it there cool I can link the
conversations that are happening on the
CID within this context say this is
probably much only reason right now I do
this realization this realization so if
we can resolve that that would call
awaiting yeah if you can like add links
to notes yeah it would be so cool
next one is the tricks
I Ranger mom who's doing some of the
brow browse the brave local discovery
between browsers work tweeted yesterday
with a diamond browser that he's working
on just a toy browser but also the goal
is to add all of the protocols which is
pretty funny and he's working on I'd BFS
support right now already has that I
procore
so with worth checking out and hopefully
he'll file some issues as a as an
implementer of ipfs in browsers
that's cool
next one's also me I've been joining so
that you probably all saw the work that
Microsoft launched service that is
instance some of the decentralized
identity efforts and standards
implementation of the IDs they are also
working with the larger group that's
combined w3c and decentralize identity
foundation work on kind of when they
were we're calling encrypted data bolts
this idea of personal storage user
centric storage that travels around the
separation between user storage of data
and the services and applications that
might operate against that data and now
this is called the secure data storage
spec at this point this group is meeting
weekly the meetings are open if people
are interested I link to a couple of
interesting things we have some some
folks like some of the Microsoft people
are there and Johnny crunch is there and
a few other folks that consistently
bring up Ori steel who's been following
some of the issues in our repos recently
relating to this work that have been
pushing ipfs as a huse so every time
there's a HTTP centric part of the
conversations of one of those folks will
pop their hand up and say well how would
this work with IP of us and it's great
because it's really quickly re oriented
the thinking of that group to really
consider Network agnostic protocols and
standards right now these reading these
meetings are all weeds they're basically
like at this point they're like where
what is the application what are the
layers so like what the one issue I
looked at all right link to is a
proposal for one way of defining what
the layers are and there's it's actually
really interesting because it's a lot
like this already a spec and everybody
kind of knows where they want to get to
in the bigger picture but they are
really working on like language
application stack and layer norms at
this point but I think the salient bit
for us is more that that storage is
expected to be content addressable as as
a as a function and that that is very
very interesting for us in a long term
and some of the partners who are working
on
really expressed an interest of ipfs
should really should be like the
normative default there as an example so
even if it's not named and expect a lot
of the prototypes and examples we'll use
IP fest so it's a pretty big win already
just in that culture of having this but
people start to think in a not HTTP you
know blinders way they're starting to
think and network agnostic out of the
box when approaching these types of
standards it big opportunity yes for us
on the long term but interesting for the
work that we're doing in browsers as you
know really the the end goal would be
that something like this is implemented
in a browser or in a browser plugin and
eventually as a browser standard
browsers being the user agent and the
most the most logical place to be able
to store and manage this type of data
just for for the record is it like an
official WC working group or is it just
like people from all around yeah I think
I think I remember I think it's just
community group and then but they had to
work out like the IP and patents ease to
be able to make it a joint decentralized
identity foundation and w3c effort so
they've kind of like at the broader
level figured out how those two
organizations work together so I think
eventually will probably be more
formalized and though III see it's not
just I think it's just a community group
in this one
all right we are at the end of the
agenda and moving to highlights if you
have any topic that you want to add to
agenda that's a good time I will be
talking a little bit about the first
item the first item is in the past weeks
we had a release of ipfs companion and
then we had a release of ideas companion
so we got to 13 Oh which shipped
revamped welcome screen with all new on
updated on burning materials so big
thank you for Jessica for
doing all the work I just shipped it
with a release so now if you want to go
to the welcome screen you can click on
this cube and you are back to the
welcome screen before you've seen it
only once and install now you can get
back to it
and another thing that happened is all
the doc links point to the new doc
website which is a frequent users like
the actual main useful point of this is
the fact that now you've got three
buttons there that say status fears and
peers and files so you can actually go
to the web UI screen that you want to go
to you without a second click oh yes
totally
I was about to say that's now you can
instead of like depending on this one we
probably need to add it here new Doc's
website we also link everywhere to it
from that landing page and small bug
fixes but in the 2:14 one there's this
opt-in for like this web UI and we also
got some new languages I think it's a I
think this really shipped Arabic however
we did not do the proper audit of ipfs
companion or any other of our interfaces
what happens when you switch to language
which is not from left to right but from
right to left that's something to add to
the to-do list hopefully the person that
contributed Arabic language will raise
any issues if they are there all right
I'm struggling to stop sharing for some
reason I can not move zoom window next
one is I think Jessica's Jessica yes
this is super quick so the ipfs GUI
usage survey that we did like a month
ago
I have finally gone through all of the
vervain um responses for that as well as
the like almost two thousand verbatim
responses from the companion uninstall
survey that gets kicked back to people
who try to categorize some of that stuff
there is a link there I'm not gonna
share my screen because right now it's
just got everything in in some graphs
and I want to add some additional notes
but um I will update this group TL DR
it's looking like a very good argument
both for vastly increasing the
beginner-friendly in nature of our GUI
of arguing apps particularly companion
like that was by far the number one they
people are just like I know know what
this is
but then also just for it also provides
some really strong backing for support
in the GUI apps for both pinning
whether that's third-party pinning
services and then also a lot of talk
about the use case if I run five I run
five nodes in my house and I want to
make a tiny private cluster form for
example so watch has face but that's
those are those are mainly the big two
takeaways I've seen so far
um alex is trying to getting back to the
room if somebody can let him I'm sorry
how much of that do you think is just
actually like I don't Mozilla org or the
Chrome apps or being a marketing
engagement vector versus how people
actually use things summon some I mean
obviously the feedback that we saw for
companion is on
people who use companion and I haven't
got any deeper into it that said we did
see a limited amount of feedback of just
there is no beginner friendly stuff for
the other graph is as well you know yeah
it's gonna be an order of magnitude
higher than stuff that people just like
randomly they're like looking up ipfs
and they see this extension and they're
like okay cool but um but I mean you
know it is still a valid point you know
we're still we are still pitching into
something that's fairly beginner
friendly and we're not really providing
a lot of backing for that ya know I I
actually think it's worth its fuel for
investing even more heavily yeah in that
if it's a really important part of our
funnel right right and I mean and this
is stuff that we've wanted to be
thinking about for a long long time and
if we are now being given the go-ahead
to focus on that very beginning you know
almost sort of marketing end of that
funnel then let's onboarding let's do
this
for additional context most of companion
users are chromium users so we have over
31,000 weekly users who installed
companion from Chrome Web Store and we
have around 3,000 of users in Mozilla's
add-on store so it's like 10 10 times
chromium users and that's Google Chrome
but also brave Microsoft edge the new
one and even Oprah for desktop like all
those browsers are chromium based tracks
that it just tracks market share yeah
yeah and yet another so the thing is
maybe we should revamp revamp the
description or like all the materials on
the store listing in Chrome Web Store
because like that's effectively the
entry point for most of the users that
closed and we heard a lot of feedback of
I didn't know I needed to install other
things yeah so we should be like clear
about that upfront yeah we think we
talked about that in in Brooklyn right
which is having a goal this year of
really really optimizing the companion
experience to be around that one
singular goal of installing desktop
which I think that would be a key part
of any onboarding I'm ready for a newbie
step step one it's won't do much for you
if you don't have a different stuff yeah
just yeah so like the Welcome page is
very clear now that's okay that's one
more step you need to either start your
note or install app if it's desktop
however like we probably should be
clearer up front before someone instance
it because some people just close the
tab
anything that's opens on the install
people tend to close it definitely
something to improve
raphal do you want to give a quick
update on the accessibility fixes in
your web UI
yeah so basically we have an issue that
one of our users is visually impaired
and she couldn't use a website properly
when I mean website the yby part I think
she was using a desktop version actually
but the web UI an accessibility a part
of it works both ways both in web UI and
desktop because desktop uses web UI so I
went ahead and tried to fix all the
accessibility issues one by installing
eslint plugin that checks out any
accessibility issues from the code and
to just navigating trying to navigate
the whole web UI using only the keyboard
and also switched up the order before
you would go first to the menu
navigation then to the navbar then to
the content of the page now you go to
the content of the page first since the
users want the content of the page first
and also fix a lot of focus focus
elements missing a lot of feedback as
well buttons all that good stuff so yeah
when the next version of Yui ships
please test it out if any of you are
power users when I mean power users I
mean like keyboard-only users that
really like to use please provide
feedback as well open issues on it and
we'll also be asking feedback from an in
visually impaired group on this court
since our user has a disk or group where
she and other people go there and talk
about and provide feedback for apps so
that's a good point to keep in mind in
the future this is awesome can you link
that link a couple of screenshots or
link to the issue and
in the highlight section these not I I
also I did tweet unrelated I tweeted the
new I everytime we get new my Etienne
localization requests I try to put them
on Twitter out there so that people will
see we need desktop UI baby all in new
languages all the time and so that's a
good timing that you can now obtain to
the latest web UI so if anyone wants to
test you are running ipfs desktop well
you can install companion and open web
UI from companion with that toggle
toggle and then you will use the latest
one with referrals fixes and submit any
feedback on that for regular users I
believe the only like visible change
will be the fact that when you have a
narrow screen now the the menu
navigation which was on the left and
when you had a narrow view port it was
on the top now it goes to the bottom of
the page that's probably the only visual
change for no that is sorry that was
fixed that was a bug I did not intend to
do it and then I infected each other I
know what it was by mistake it was like
the Flex property was only on desktop so
I had to give it then no one will know
this but it's fixed for the web UI
opt-in can you add a link to that too
and is that how we can test the
service work as it's coming online or as
well does that require a separate
builder branch yeah I believe like
actually you don't need to do anything
you just go to web UI that IP FSI oh and
if if your node is missing any like
configuration there's a new ready for
copy and pasting commands that you sort
of like authorize that website to be
able to access your API so that's like a
requires manual step even if you toggle
that toggle in companion you will still
have to do this manual configuration but
yeah web UI that ipfs IO is the latest
version from the master branch so if we
want someone to provide feedback on
accessibility fixes and in future like
ETA I think on the pinning services that
will be the URL to use yeah so it does
not require bumping with Goa Kieffer's
version or JCB first version I believe
we are at the end of highlights so I'm
like quickly nervously checking if
someone is in the waiting room can you
add a link to the issue or change for
the web UI optin oh it's actually like
in the release notes of the lake okay
all right
yep so we are at the end of agenda and
the ad hoc topics you want to discuss
concerns I guess we were very efficient
this week actually I saw the one
question I was gonna ask Dietrich
earlier appetite for the end of doing in
those discussion about the secure
storage is anyone from the protocol apps
or ipfs greater community in world to
kind of inform the group so they don't
make wrong assumptions about how I give
a storage works
yeah Johnny French is there every one of
those meetings and he's he's usually
pretty good at bringing up those types
of concerns but but like I said I think
more the more people that are present
the more it creates an environment and
atmosphere where our concerns are
considered so I would recommend that
folks just hop in and lurk even like
that's pretty much said I do I don't
really say anything other than introduce
myself every now and then when they do
intros or whatever but just being there
to ask the question or to recognize when
a question or some design choice might
be going down the the non-network
agnostic crap Network specific
networking exclusive is worth doing so
and more really like this is really
early work to like there are some
implementations of variations of this
but nothing of the spec yet so it's it's
not kind of high priority or emergency
but the presence allows us to shape
which which direction but so do maybe
just worth hanging out if you're
interested in in this stuff it's also
kind of interesting to to if you haven't
done that kind of stuff before sit in
these meetings and watch how the
proceedings go and watch how how they
handle the needs and interests of
diverse groups of stakeholders who have
various competing sometimes
implementations and competing feature
requests for things like identity
okay I think we had our 10 seconds of
awkward silence alright folks I won't
keep you around for long much longer
mostly because I have a such a long
block of meetings I think everyone will
deserve some like freeing up some time
so I ended this one like executive
decision to finish this week sooner than
later and invite everyone same time in
two weeks I